Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.Is a computer language programmers use to develop software programs.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.Java Developer Kit composed of:
*Javac:reads class and interface definitions.
*Java: starts a java runtime environment, loading a specified class, and calling that class's main method.
*Javap:disassembles one or more class files.
*Javah: generates C header and source files that are needed to implement native methods.
*Javadoc: Java Documentation helps to maintain code.
*Jdb:is a simple command-line debugger for Java classes.
*Applet viewer: connects to the documents or resources designated by urls and displays each applet referenced by the documents.

What is IDE?
A.Integrated development environment is software for building applications that combines
  common developer tools into a single graphical user interface.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.Eclipse, Intellij, bluej, Jcreator.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. 1- Source:Create a source document.
   2- Compiler:Run your document through a source code compiler.
   3- output: The compiler creates a new document, coded in to java bytecode.
   4- Virtual machine: Reads and runs the bytecode.

what is class?
A. it is a blue print of and object.

What is object?
A.Object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
A.Main Method.

Why main is static?
A.Allows main to be called without creating an object.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. Object class.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. Path: is an environment variable which is used to locate jdk binaries and
   Classpath: is only used by Java ClassLoaders to load class files.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. Interface  abstract methods and cannot have implementations and  abstract class
   may contain non final variables.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. You can not but you can implement a subclass(not abstract).

what is Access Specifier?
A.specifies which classes can access a given class and its fields, constructors and method

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. Object Oriented Programming Language
*Abstraction: Implementation hiding.
*Encapsulation: Data Hiding.
*Inheritance:The ability of a class to acquire the properties from one class to another class.
*Polymorphism:The ability of an object to take on many form.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. Java.lang

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. Application Programming Interface and some examples are Google Maps,facebook, Instagram.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. It does not because it leads to deadly problem but it can be done thought interfaces.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. happens in compile time, allows a class to have more than one method having the same name.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. Is an unexpected event that occurs during the execution of a program and it is handle
thought the following keys try, catch, throw, throws, and finally.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. Indicates that the particular member belongs to a type itself.
   Static Methods: They're meant to be used without creating objects of the class.
   Static Variables: exactly a single copy of that field is created and shared among all instances of that class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. Final is a non-access modifier.
   Final Variable: Its value can’t be modified also means that you must initialize the variable.
   Final Method: cannot be overridden by subclasses.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. Final: cannot be instantiated, a final method cannot be overridden and a final variable cannot be reassigned
   Finally:is used to create a block of code that follows a try block.
   Finalize:method is used just before object is destroyed and can be called just prior to object creation.

What is a constructor ?
A.special method that is used to initialize objects.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. Yes
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. Default Constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A.Super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable, to invoke parent class method or
  invoke parent class constructor

What is JVM stand for ?
A. Java virtual machine

Is JVM platform independent?
A.is not platform independent

What version of java are you using?
A.java version "1.8.0_251"

What is JAR stand for ?
A.Java Archive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A. JDK is the core component of java Environment and JVM is the heart of java programming language

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. JVM is an environment for executing bytecode and JRE allows java program to run.


What is compile time and run time?
A.Compile time is the time at which the source code is converted into an executable code
  while the run time is the time at which the executable code is started running.

What is heap?
A. it is where all the objects live.

How java manage it's memory?
A. all the objects live in the heap and the heap is created when the JMV starts up, and when
   the Heap becomes full the garbage collector will collect objects that are not longer in use.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A.The String class is an immutable class whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder classes are mutable
  String is a time consuming and StringBuffer
What is Singleton class?
A.Is to control object creation, limiting the number of objects.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A. Serialization: is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte.
   Deserialization:is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate
   the actual Java object in memory


when to use transient variable in java?
A. At the time of serialization if we don't want to save value of a particular variable in a file

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. the While Loop tests at the top and the block might not be executed
   but do While Loop executed the block at least once.

What is Enum?
A. represent predefined constant data, is an efficient set implementation with element
   that belong to an enumerated type.

What is Iterator?
A.it is an interface that has three methods and Iterator is know as being between elements.
When you call next the iterator jumps over the next element, and it returns a reference to
the element that it just passed.


Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. Integer.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A. because they are saved in a standard Unicode format and String objects are cached in String poo
   so that they can retrieve the value object.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. Parallel allows you to run multiple threads and serial is designed for single threads.

What is JIT stands for?
A.Just-In-Time.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. Heap space: is the memory container allocated to applications running in the
   JVM giving the right memory space needs.
   Garbage Collection is the process by which Java programs perform automatic memory management.


Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. Java does automatic garbage collection for live objects, but you can add finalize method
   and it sweeps away the object before the garbage collector.
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. is a self-organizing binary that has add and remove operations.
   and stack insert and remove values anywhere, not just at the top of the stack.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. Reflection: is the ability to find out more about classes and their
   properties in a running program and it is useful because
   analyze the capabilities of classes at runtime.

what is multithreading in java?
A.extends the idea of multitasking, individual programs will appear to do multiple
  tasks at the same time and those tasks are call thread.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A.two or more threads need to share access to the same data.

What is Framework?
A. is a set of classes that form the basis for building advanced functionality.
 (a platform for developing software applications).

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. the most popular are:Selenium, jUnit, testNg, JBehave.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. TestNG supports Dependency Testing while JUnit does not but they are similar.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A.

what is dependency injection in java?
A. It is when a class depends on another class to do some task.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A. Static Binding:happens at compile time also called early binding.
   Dynamic Binding: When compiler is not able to resolve the binding at
   compile time,late binding happens at runtime and it makes programs extensible without
   the need for modifying existing code.









